# Week 5 Journal

**Instructions:** In your journal.md for this week, think about what you found intriguing, compelling, and effective about the various sites and projects you explored this week. Tie what you find/observe to your own work. With regard to your own work, reflect on your design choices and the story you’re trying to tell, or the interesting thing you’ve found. Critically evaluate the thing(s) you’ve made; perhaps show them to someone outside of this course and ask for their feedback. Did they understand the point you were trying to make? What was effective, for them, and what was confusing?

This week, the projects we did were a mix of certain things I had never seen before, concepts I was very familiar with and certain ideas I have expirience with but envisioned in different ways. I think of everything we've done, the thing that has intrigued me the most was the historical data represented as sound, or music in this case. I can't exactly explain why, but I find it so rivoting that quantitative and numerical data into such an different medium of representation. I really like how even though it is sound, someone can still distinguish a certain story that is being conveyed by the change of music. I had a really good time exploring how different sounds could change how I feel/understand the narrative. Another thing we explored this week was essentially graphic design, or poster design. This is something I have a lot of expirience with through my studies and various jobs. although, sepcifically looking at academic posters was enlightening. I am not sure if I got the nail exactly on the head with mine... but I do feel like I learned quite abit. I think I just need the content to make the correct type of poster next time. Although, I do feel good about the one I made. it is more informational and organizd than the other posters I have made. Finally, we did some work with maps. Although I do have past expirience with data vizualization in the form of mapping and GIS, the idea of the story map and even making the map through code was new to me! I especially enjoyed the story map program. Even looking trough the examples, I find this is a very compelling way to share a story. I have always found maps to be a great tool in story telling, especially over digital means.

## Podcast
This was the task this week I was most self concious about, but I will admit it was the most fun to make. I felt like I learned alot about a medium I was very unfamiliar with. For my low skill level, I was pretty happy with the end result. I showed a small clip of it to my brother, and he laughed mainly at my voice. He did offer a piece of constructive criticism that I will implement if I ever do this again; to try adding light background music while I am taling, and make sure my mic is at an equal distance from my mouth so the voice doesn't fluctuate while recording. Overall, he understood my point because I quite literally talked through my narrative.

## Sonification
This was the task I had the most fun with! I've mentioned it mny times but I really enjoyed learning this type of stry tellig and would love to do more with it. In this case, I wish I had found data that I undrstood abit more. I obviously understood the whole concept of how music can represent the data (spikes in sound represent spikes in data, etc). I also showed this to my brother and he admittedly did not understand exactly what the music meant, but after I explained the concept he said that he can understand how it would work. 

## Story Map
This project I think was my most successful of all the tasks this week. This was interesting to do. Once again, I think my issue was finding a good "story" to show using the map. I was completely clueless, so I decided to dsplay the 7 wonders of the world. In my head, if was something that allowed the "story" to cross all over the map, but I do understand it is most likely not the historical context we were supposed to explore. I tend to struggle finding content for some of these tasks (I sort of mentioned why in my Podcast rant). I showed this project to my brother once again, and he liked it! He did say that it was not really a story, but he could again see how it could easily and effectively show a narrative using its various tools.

## Leaflet
THis one was a really cool idea, but I didn't really do it to it's full potential I believe. I could see how it would be used (by someone much more adept at coding and passionate about history) to display a story, especially with the animation feature. Once again, I had trouble finding a good map of Ottawa to wrap, so I used the one given. I think the whole idea of wrapping the maps ontop of one another is super interestng and I can see how this could be used to telll a compelling story. I showed this one to my brother, but he did not really et the story being told. That being that there really wasnt one.

## Academic Poster
Finally, this is the story telling medium I have the most expirience with. I liked learning about posters and design in a different context. The poster I made was not exactly as instructed, but I used my judgement to design a layout and choose design elements that best complimented the information I wanted to convey. I am happy with my end product. I showed this to my brother and he also agree that the simple timeline approach was a good way to display the information. He also commented that the cleanliness of the poster helped him focus on what was important in the information. 


